in this video let us learn how to solve the
longest common subsequent problem using dynamic programming in dynamic
programming
What will we do We will first solve the smaller
sub problem and we will store the result
Using that result we will solve another problem and so
on
Finally using all these sub solutions we will arrive at
the overall optimal solution
Let us take two subsequent is and apply the
same approach to solve this problem
We have  BACDB and BDCB write down
the subsequent is in a row column vice manner
You might have a question Why are we writing these
subsequent through column wise in dynamic programming we
need to solve all these sub problems to arrive at
the overall oprimal result here each and every cell
denotes one sub problem and the result of that particular
sub problem will be stored here
Using that result we will solve the next problem and
using that we will solve another problem and so on
For example here this cell will have the length of
the longest common subsequent B and B
This cell will have the length of the longest common
subsequent BDC and BA
subsequent BDC and BACD and the
last cell will have the length of the longest common
Subsequent B D C B and B A
C D B which is exactly our problem statement so
the overall result will be stored in
This cell so let us solve each sub problem one
by one first mark all the cells of the first
row and first column as zero as they don't have
any characters
Here we have B and B that is we have
the same characters
When two characters are equal we need to add one
to the previously found longest common
Subsequent linked excluding these two characters and work
in we find that we can find that in array
of I minus one J minus one which is zero
here
So we will get zero plus one that is one
in this cell
Next we have B and D so different characters And if
the characters are not equal the longest common subsequent length
can be found by excluding anyone of the current characters
If we exclude the row element the maximum length can
be found in array of I minus one
J that is the top cell
And if we exclude the column element the maximum length
can be found in array of I J minus one
That is the left cell
So we are taking the maximum of these two here
the maximum is in left
cell So write one here
Next we have B and C again
We got different characters so take maximum of left and
top cells
It is one so write one here
Next we have B and B the same characters
So what should we do We can take Previously found
Longest common subsequent length excluding these two characters at array
of I minus one J minus one and add one
to it
So we will get zero plus one
So write one here
Next we have A and B different characters
So take the maximum value which is one
Next we have A and D again different characters
So take maximum of one and one which is one
Next we have A and C
So different characters
So write one next is A and B again different
characters
So write maximum of one and one which is one
next is C and B
So we got different characters
So take the maximum which is one next is c
and D again take the maximum of one and one
which is one next is
C and C that is we got the same characters So
go to previous row previous column and we have one
there so add one to it and we will get
two And now let us see what this means
This value here is a solution to a sub problem
that is it holds the length of the longest common
subsequent for the strings BDC
And BAC for these two strings the longer subsequent possible
is B C and its length is two
And that is exactly what we got here
Next we have C and B
That is we got different characters
So take the maximum of one and two which is
two next we have d and B
We got different characters
So take the maximum of zero and one which is
one next we have B and D So we got the
same characters So go to previous row Previous column and
we have one there
So one plus one equal to two
So we get two here next we have d and
c
So take the maximum which is two next is D
and B
So again take the maximum two next
We have B and B that is we got the
same characters
So take this zero and add one to it
So we will get one
Next is B and D
We got different characters
So take the maximum value two next is B and
C again take the maximum value which is two next
B and B
That is same characters
So take this value two and add one to it
so we will get three
Now
This value is the length of the longest common subsequent
for the strings B D c B and B
ACDB
The longer subsequent is possible are B D B
and B C B and their length is three
That is exactly what we have got here.